The Joe Rogan experience. To me, you know,
one of the uplifting features of being
rooted in the arts and music is that no matter how ugly
and vicious and hateful things are it never
suffocates the human spirit. Hmm.
Somebody gonna tell a joke and you laugh somebody it's their sing a song and
touch your soul. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah.
And it's almost a way of saying, uh, I love you.
Not in a sentimental Hollywood stereotypical way,
but you know that song by Stevie one of these three words. Oh Lord,
you got that me. We can't play. Oh, you can't play. Oh, I thought he go,
we'll get right. Cause that was a video that you put up there before. Yeah.
But that video was Gary Johnson singing in a concert that you did. Yeah.
Yeah. That's we can get away with that. Just listen to Stevie man.
Cuz he's talking about how an aching heart can be
kindled to smile and open and
connect in a world,
overwhelmed by hatred and distrust. That shot,
that shot through all of us and we all contribute to it.
Mmhmm <affirmative> we all contribute to it. You see? I mean,
one of the reasons why, even when I talk about, you know, brother Trump as a,
uh, the gang, I call him a kinda do we have created a fascist, uh,
Frankenstein and he's the creation of the worst of America in the way in which
Martin king represents the best that they are, both America's apple pie,
but any critique of anybody ought to begin with yourself
ought to begin with who we are.
Cause we all got gangsster elements inside of us. Yeah.
No way around us. He, no, I've never met. I met him one time,
I think at the end of Anita baker concert in the casinos, in uh,
Atlantic city, way back in the eightie. Wow. And it was interesting.
He was there with Mike Tyson I think.
And it was interesting cuz it was a chocolate affair. You know what I mean?
He Don a vanilla brother there. Right. And you know,
one of the first things that come across to the brother is that he just so glad
to be there hanging out with the black brothers. Cool. And so funny,
you could just tell he just squares, rectangle, sit back.
<laugh> you go listen to your beach boys, man. We got Jay's brown brother.
We got we Brian Wilson. We love you. But we got JB man. And, and,
but it, and it is, but,
and it's a cultural dynamic mm-hmm <affirmative> because he was the richest one
in the room though. Right.
And Mike Tyson got a lot of money when Don king got sold that money too. But uh,
uh, but it was a different kind of dynamic.
And so it's a context in which you embrace, you know, we,
we embrace them because that's the best of black culture. Right?
We embrace everybody. Right. You know what I mean?
Donald Trump's mother shows up from Scotland in 1930
black people been here, nine generation.
We ain't gonna say go back where you come from, come on in here, sister,
be part of this democratic experiment.
We on the other side of chocolate side of town, but we welcome you,
but don't say nothing about our brown brothers and sisters coming in from
Mexico. We <affirmative> because if anybody's definitive about what is America,
it's gonna be red in black people because they're the ones who undergo the
monstrous crimes against humanity, the genocide,
the stolen land on the one hand and the stolen peoples and the
human on the other. Those are the pillars, the worst pillars of the country.
Then you've got democratic visions coming, not just from Thomas Jefferson,
but they're coming from the slaves like Frederick Douglas. Mmhmm.
See what I mean?
The border crisis is a very interesting one, right? Because it's, it, it,
it represents the, the fear of people. Yeah.
From the downtrodden countries where they,
they don't have opportunity trying to get into this country. Yes.
But then it also represents the fear of, of criminals,
of drug dealers and gangsters and gang members make cartel members
making their way across and, and victimizing our citizens. And both things are.
Human. Both things are real, too human.
But if you tell the lies and make it as if the latter represent the whole right.
And that's what Trump specializes in. Right.
Did you see the video of Pence when he was down there at the detention centers
and just, just looking away? No humanity, just very disturbing. And.
It's so, you know,
it's so sad because here's a brother who speaks his whole personal
identity on Christianity being a Chris. Yes. Yes. And you say,
I felt the same way yourself, like brother Michael. I mean,
as a fellow Christian,
I'm not trying to call and question your Christian faith or nothing.
I don't have authority to do that.
But the Bible says in part by the
works, you shall know them.
The works of love exemplify. You see, and you know,
nowadays you've got com commodmodified Christianity and a commodmodified culture
of a declining empire and you get Christian evangelicals 91%
or so prorump 79%. See, say,
he's doing the best possible job. And you say to yourself, wow,
Chris tianity seems to have lost meaning of the cross
and has become so accommodated to the empire.
And it was the Roman empire who put Jesus to death, right?
It was Roman empire. You had some Neo colonial elites who cooperated,
but it was a Roman empire who puts Jesus to death.
It was the greatest empire of its day. Very much like the Persian empire,
the largest greatest empire of its day with Cyrus to great.
Now you got the Roman empire putting Jesus to death.
And here Jesus is sent there by the crowd, by the mob.
And you say to brother Michael pinnce,
so you gonna accommodate yourself to Donald Trump.
You're gonna accommodate yourself to policies that are so inhumane in
bbaric just to retain your position and try to
then rationalize it as a Christian.
We need some music and some comedy to try to get in contact with his humanity to
change him. But most importantly, you just need a social movement. You know,
you need to get him outta office. You need some accountability.
But with Pat's to just, just seeing him in reaction to those,
people's just a failure of perspective, just.
Cold, distant, and.
Callous. Well,
the narrative is that they broke the law and that they're imposing upon our
great nation. And you know, this is it's crimes of opportunity.
They're just trying to, they're trying to find opportunity. <affirmative>,
they're trying to they're coming over here because they want a better life to
not have sympathy for that.
And, and, and other than indigenous peoples and, uh, and, and,
and my own African peoples, that is the history of the country. Yeah.
The open and bring into the country.
Those who are eager of energy, willing to work and sacrifice,
and the unbelievable contribution of, uh,
of voluntary immigrants to the making of American American,
not a nation of immigrants.
I don't like that language cuz it overlooks indigenous peoples and right.
Involuntary immigrants like black people and, and, and slavery,
America's original sin.
That's another neoliberal lie that you hear all the time on the corporate media,
as if indigenous people suffering has to be rendered invisible, right.
To highlight black people.
What's one of the least discussed injustices of this nation. Right? Absolutely.
And then their current situation with their, in,
in these reservations with extreme alcoholism of drugddiction social.
Misery, they still got their rich music and poetry and resistance, but the,
the social conditions are just, but this, they, they,
they are the casualties yes. Of a settler colonial enterprise.
And we rather act as if they don't exist. Right. I mean we,
black people became central because our labor on our imagination and
culture became central. And we had a ballbaric civil war,
750,000 people dead each life precious. Uh,
and that has been the central event and the shaping of America.
So when people talk about race,
they go straight to blackness as if indigenous peoples in redness
is not integral.
It's just that they've been bridged so invisible and the vicious attack has been
so immense.
What's so complicated too, that they have their own rules on the reservations.
They're allowed to have gambling. They can have all sorts of they,
they have their own sovereignty in a certain way.
That's true on the reservations. It's very odd. Oh no.
It's true. And I was blessed to be there in standing rock. Um,
on a couple of Decembers ago, it was one of the, uh, marvelous moments in,
in my life to stand there with the, um, the group there.
It was a multiracial group.
People came from all around the world and I am inclined from Canada. Uh,
for the most part, it was a matter of the indigenous peoples coming together,
memories of wounded knee in 1890, over 400 people.
Could you remind people what this, what.
Standing rock was about,
but standing rock was a struggle over that pipeline pipeline. Yeah, absolutely.
Trying to put pressure on the Obama administration to ensure that a pipeline was
not built,
that would to violate the sacred lands and many of the sacred
memories of indigenous peoples.
And it was magnificent because you had the coming together of indigenous nations
because part of the problem,
this is true for all oppress people is fighting among them themselves.
And the difficulty of coming together is the first time you had the coming
together, a significant number of indigenous people's nations unified
against the greedy corporate elites who were trying to
promote this pipeline through Canada all the way down to the Southern section of
the United States. And it was just how that off, well, we first,
we got an announce, right? When we were there, it was freezing too.
It was December.
And they were hosing people down too. Oh Lord Jess.
They were hosing people down wet weting them down while this was all going on.
And.
It was about minus mm-hmm <affirmative> 15 or whatever it was,
it was freezing up there, you know? And, uh, uh, but no,
we got an announcement from the Obama administration for, um,
suspension of it, cuz they had planned to do it too. I mean, you know,
Obama administration can be very, uh,
accommodating the wall street interests and corporate lead interests and so
forth. Uh, even given the,
the image and spectacle of a black president being a progressive and what have
you much more progressive than Trump that that's not saying too much. Right.
<affirmative> but uh, uh, but we got a suspension and uh,
and the struggle continues really, but it was, it, it, and it,
it sent tremendous ripples through, uh,
the cultures of indigenous peoples and,
and their nations in terms of coming together in terms of, and the fact that.
It was successful. Absolutely.
And, and there was at least a relative victory. Yeah.
All these victories of relative, but very relative victory.
But it was beautiful just to see again, you know, you know,
you can't downplay the role of joy though, brother.
This is so very important. The joy in struggle,
the joy in organizing the joy in fighting for justice,
the joy in the nightclubs,
the joy in the is a Moss or temples or synagogues.
Joy is something that we need to come back to.
That's one of the great secrets of the human conditions.
What are the sources of joy? What are the conditions for the possibility of joy?
We've been, been obsessed with pleasure for the last a hundred years or so.
Uh, and there's nothing wrong with, with pleasure,
but pleasure is not the same thing as joy at all.
When you look at the sparkling eyes of your precious daughter,
that's not pleasure. That's joy. Hmm. You and your wife,
that's de deep joy. You see that's what endures,
you could be broke as the 10 commandments financially,
but that memory will bring you joy.
Okay.